.TH RECOLL.CONF 5 "14 November 2012"
.SH NAME
recoll.conf \- main personal configuration file for Recoll
.SH DESCRIPTION
This file defines the index configuration for the Recoll full-text search
system.
.LP
The system-wide configuration file is normally located inside
/usr/[local]/share/recoll/examples. Any parameter set in the common file
may be overridden by setting it in the personal configuration file, by default:
.IR $HOME/.recoll/recoll.conf
.LP
Please note while I try to keep this manual page reasonably up to date, it
will frequently lag the current state of the software. The best source of
information about the configuration are the comments in the system-wide
configuration file or the user manual which you can access from the recoll GUI
help menu or on the recoll web site.

.LP
A short extract of the file might look as follows:
.IP
.nf

# Space-separated list of directories to index.
topdirs =  ~/docs /usr/share/doc

[~/somedirectory-with-utf8-txt-files]
defaultcharset = utf-8

.fi
.LP
There are three kinds of lines:
.RS
.IP \(bu
Comment or empty
.IP \(bu
Parameter affectation
.IP \(bu
Section definition
.RE
.LP
Empty lines or lines beginning with # are ignored.
.LP
Affectation lines are in the form 'name = value'.
.LP
Section lines allow redefining a parameter for a directory subtree. Some of
the parameters used for indexing are looked up hierarchically from the
more to the less specific. Not all parameters can be meaningfully
redefined, this is specified for each in the next section.
.LP
The tilde character (~) is expanded in file names to the name of the user's
home directory.
.LP
Where values are lists, white space is used for separation, and elements with
embedded spaces can be quoted with double-quotes.
.SH OPTIONS


.TP
.BI "topdirs = "string
Space-separated list of files or
directories to recursively index. Default to ~ (indexes
$HOME). You can use symbolic links in the list, they will be followed,
independently of the value of the followLinks variable.
.TP
.BI "monitordirs = "string
Space-separated list of files or directories to monitor for
updates. When running the real-time indexer, this allows monitoring only a
subset of the whole indexed area. The elements must be included in the
tree defined by the 'topdirs' members.
.TP
.BI "skippedNames = "string
Files and directories which should be ignored. 
White space separated list of wildcard patterns (simple ones, not paths,
must contain no / ), which will be tested against file and directory
names.  The list in the default configuration does not exclude hidden
directories (names beginning with a dot), which means that it may index
quite a few things that you do not want. On the other hand, email user
agents like Thunderbird usually store messages in hidden directories, and
you probably want this indexed. One possible solution is to have ".*" in
"skippedNames", and add things like "~/.thunderbird" "~/.evolution" to
"topdirs".  Not even the file names are indexed for patterns in this
list, see the "noContentSuffixes" variable for an alternative approach
which indexes the file names. Can be redefined for any
subtree.
.TP
.BI "skippedNames- = "string
List of name endings to remove from the default skippedNames
list. 
.TP
.BI "skippedNames+ = "string
List of name endings to add to the default skippedNames
list. 
.TP
.BI "noContentSuffixes = "string
List of name endings (not necessarily dot-separated suffixes) for
which we don't try MIME type identification, and don't uncompress or
index content. Only the names will be indexed. This
complements the now obsoleted recoll_noindex list from the mimemap file,
which will go away in a future release (the move from mimemap to
recoll.conf allows editing the list through the GUI). This is different
from skippedNames because these are name ending matches only (not
wildcard patterns), and the file name itself gets indexed normally. This
can be redefined for subdirectories.
.TP
.BI "noContentSuffixes- = "string
List of name endings to remove from the default noContentSuffixes
list. 
.TP
.BI "noContentSuffixes+ = "string
List of name endings to add to the default noContentSuffixes
list. 
.TP
.BI "skippedPaths = "string
Absolute paths we should not go into. Space-separated list of wildcard expressions for absolute
filesystem paths. Must be defined at the top level of the configuration
file, not in a subsection. Can contain files and directories. The database and
configuration directories will automatically be added. The expressions
are matched using 'fnmatch(3)' with the FNM_PATHNAME flag set by
default. This means that '/' characters must be matched explicitly. You
can set 'skippedPathsFnmPathname' to 0 to disable the use of FNM_PATHNAME
(meaning that '/*/dir3' will match '/dir1/dir2/dir3'). The default value
contains the usual mount point for removable media to remind you that it
is a bad idea to have Recoll work on these (esp. with the monitor: media
gets indexed on mount, all data gets erased on unmount). Explicitly
adding '/media/xxx' to the 'topdirs' variable will override
this.
.TP
.BI "skippedPathsFnmPathname = "bool
Set to 0 to
override use of FNM_PATHNAME for matching skipped
paths. 
.TP
.BI "nowalkfn = "string
File name which will cause its parent directory to be skipped. Any directory containing a file with this name will be skipped as
if it was part of the skippedPaths list. Ex: .recoll-noindex
.TP
.BI "daemSkippedPaths = "string
skippedPaths equivalent specific to
real time indexing. This enables having parts of the tree
which are initially indexed but not monitored. If daemSkippedPaths is
not set, the daemon uses skippedPaths.
.TP
.BI "zipUseSkippedNames = "bool
Use skippedNames inside Zip archives. Fetched
directly by the rclzip handler. Skip the patterns defined by skippedNames
inside Zip archives. Can be redefined for subdirectories.
See https://www.lesbonscomptes.com/recoll/faqsandhowtos/FilteringOutZipArchiveMembers.html

.TP
.BI "zipSkippedNames = "string
Space-separated list of wildcard expressions for names that should
be ignored inside zip archives. This is used directly by
the zip handler. If zipUseSkippedNames is not set, zipSkippedNames
defines the patterns to be skipped inside archives. If zipUseSkippedNames
is set, the two lists are concatenated and used. Can be redefined for
subdirectories.
See https://www.lesbonscomptes.com/recoll/faqsandhowtos/FilteringOutZipArchiveMembers.html

.TP
.BI "followLinks = "bool
Follow symbolic links during
indexing. The default is to ignore symbolic links to avoid
multiple indexing of linked files. No effort is made to avoid duplication
when this option is set to true. This option can be set individually for
each of the 'topdirs' members by using sections. It can not be changed
below the 'topdirs' level. Links in the 'topdirs' list itself are always
followed.
.TP
.BI "indexedmimetypes = "string
Restrictive list of
indexed mime types. Normally not set (in which case all
supported types are indexed). If it is set, only the types from the list
will have their contents indexed. The names will be indexed anyway if
indexallfilenames is set (default). MIME type names should be taken from
the mimemap file (the values may be different from xdg-mime or file -i
output in some cases). Can be redefined for subtrees.
.TP
.BI "excludedmimetypes = "string
List of excluded MIME
types. Lets you exclude some types from indexing. MIME type
names should be taken from the mimemap file (the values may be different
from xdg-mime or file -i output in some cases) Can be redefined for
subtrees.
.TP
.BI "nomd5types = "string
Don't compute md5 for these types. md5 checksums are used only for deduplicating results, and can be
very expensive to compute on multimedia or other big files. This list
lets you turn off md5 computation for selected types. It is global (no
redefinition for subtrees). At the moment, it only has an effect for
external handlers (exec and execm). The file types can be specified by
listing either MIME types (e.g. audio/mpeg) or handler names
(e.g. rclaudio).
.TP
.BI "compressedfilemaxkbs = "int
Size limit for compressed
files. We need to decompress these in a
temporary directory for identification, which can be wasteful in some
cases. Limit the waste. Negative means no limit. 0 results in no
processing of any compressed file. Default 50 MB.
.TP
.BI "textfilemaxmbs = "int
Size limit for text
files. Mostly for skipping monster
logs. Default 20 MB.
.TP
.BI "indexallfilenames = "bool
Index the file names of
unprocessed files Index the names of files the contents of
which we don't index because of an excluded or unsupported MIME
type.
.TP
.BI "usesystemfilecommand = "bool
Use a system command
for file MIME type guessing as a final step in file type
identification This is generally useful, but will usually
cause the indexing of many bogus 'text' files. See 'systemfilecommand'
for the command used.
.TP
.BI "systemfilecommand = "string
Command used to guess
MIME types if the internal methods fails This should be a
"file -i" workalike.  The file path will be added as a last parameter to
the command line. "xdg-mime" works better than the traditional "file"
command, and is now the configured default (with a hard-coded fallback to
"file")
.TP
.BI "processwebqueue = "bool
Decide if we process the
Web queue. The queue is a directory where the Recoll Web
browser plugins create the copies of visited pages.
.TP
.BI "textfilepagekbs = "int
Page size for text
files. If this is set, text/plain files will be divided
into documents of approximately this size. Will reduce memory usage at
index time and help with loading data in the preview window at query
time. Particularly useful with very big files, such as application or
system logs. Also see textfilemaxmbs and
compressedfilemaxkbs.
.TP
.BI "membermaxkbs = "int
Size limit for archive
members. This is passed to the filters in the environment
as RECOLL_FILTER_MAXMEMBERKB.
.TP
.BI "indexStripChars = "bool
Decide if we store
character case and diacritics in the index. If we do,
searches sensitive to case and diacritics can be performed, but the index
will be bigger, and some marginal weirdness may sometimes occur. The
default is a stripped index. When using multiple indexes for a search,
this parameter must be defined identically for all. Changing the value
implies an index reset.
.TP
.BI "indexStoreDocText = "bool
Decide if we store the
documents' text content in the index. Storing the text
allows extracting snippets from it at query time, instead of building
them from index position data.
Newer Xapian index formats have rendered our use of positions list
unacceptably slow in some cases. The last Xapian index format with good
performance for the old method is Chert, which is default for 1.2, still
supported but not default in 1.4 and will be dropped in 1.6.
The stored document text is translated from its original format to UTF-8
plain text, but not stripped of upper-case, diacritics, or punctuation
signs. Storing it increases the index size by 10-20% typically, but also
allows for nicer snippets, so it may be worth enabling it even if not
strictly needed for performance if you can afford the space.
The variable only has an effect when creating an index, meaning that the
xapiandb directory must not exist yet. Its exact effect depends on the
Xapian version.
For Xapian 1.4, if the variable is set to 0, the Chert format will be
used, and the text will not be stored. If the variable is 1, Glass will
be used, and the text stored.
For Xapian 1.2, and for versions after 1.5 and newer, the index format is
always the default, but the variable controls if the text is stored or
not, and the abstract generation method. With Xapian 1.5 and later, and
the variable set to 0, abstract generation may be very slow, but this
setting may still be useful to save space if you do not use abstract
generation at all.

.TP
.BI "nonumbers = "bool
Decides if terms will be
generated for numbers. For example "123", "1.5e6",
192.168.1.4, would not be indexed if nonumbers is set ("value123" would
still be). Numbers are often quite interesting to search for, and this
should probably not be set except for special situations, ie, scientific
documents with huge amounts of numbers in them, where setting nonumbers
will reduce the index size. This can only be set for a whole index, not
for a subtree.
.TP
.BI "dehyphenate = "bool
Determines if we index
'coworker' also when the input is 'co-worker'. This is new
in version 1.22, and on by default. Setting the variable to off allows
restoring the previous behaviour.
.TP
.BI "backslashasletter = "bool
Process backslash as normal letter This may make sense for people wanting to index TeX commands as
such but is not of much general use.
.TP
.BI "maxtermlength = "int
Maximum term length. Words longer than this will be discarded.
The default is 40 and used to be hard-coded, but it can now be
adjusted. You need an index reset if you change the value.
.TP
.BI "nocjk = "bool
Decides if specific East Asian
(Chinese Korean Japanese) characters/word splitting is turned
off. This will save a small amount of CPU if you have no CJK
documents. If your document base does include such text but you are not
interested in searching it, setting nocjk may be a
significant time and space saver.
.TP
.BI "cjkngramlen = "int
This lets you adjust the size of
n-grams used for indexing CJK text. The default value of 2 is
probably appropriate in most cases. A value of 3 would allow more precision
and efficiency on longer words, but the index will be approximately twice
as large.
.TP
.BI "indexstemminglanguages = "string
Languages for which to create stemming expansion
data. Stemmer names can be found by executing 'recollindex
-l', or this can also be set from a list in the GUI.
.TP
.BI "defaultcharset = "string
Default character
set. This is used for files which do not contain a
character set definition (e.g.: text/plain). Values found inside files,
e.g. a 'charset' tag in HTML documents, will override it. If this is not
set, the default character set is the one defined by the NLS environment
($LC_ALL, $LC_CTYPE, $LANG), or ultimately iso-8859-1 (cp-1252 in fact).
If for some reason you want a general default which does not match your
LANG and is not 8859-1, use this variable. This can be redefined for any
sub-directory.
.TP
.BI "unac_except_trans = "string
A list of characters,
encoded in UTF-8, which should be handled specially
when converting text to unaccented lowercase. For
example, in Swedish, the letter a with diaeresis has full alphabet
citizenship and should not be turned into an a.
Each element in the space-separated list has the special character as
first element and the translation following. The handling of both the
lowercase and upper-case versions of a character should be specified, as
appartenance to the list will turn-off both standard accent and case
processing. The value is global and affects both indexing and querying.
Examples:
Swedish:
unac_except_trans = ää Ää öö Öö üü Üü ßss œoe Œoe æae Æae ﬀff ﬁfi ﬂfl åå Åå
. German:
unac_except_trans = ää Ää öö Öö üü Üü ßss œoe Œoe æae Æae ﬀff ﬁfi ﬂfl
In French, you probably want to decompose oe and ae and nobody would type
a German ß
unac_except_trans = ßss œoe Œoe æae Æae ﬀff ﬁfi ﬂfl
. The default for all until someone protests follows. These decompositions
are not performed by unac, but it is unlikely that someone would type the
composed forms in a search.
unac_except_trans = ßss œoe Œoe æae Æae ﬀff ﬁfi ﬂfl
.TP
.BI "maildefcharset = "string
Overrides the default
character set for email messages which don't specify
one. This is mainly useful for readpst (libpst) dumps,
which are utf-8 but do not say so.
.TP
.BI "localfields = "string
Set fields on all files
(usually of a specific fs area). Syntax is the usual:
name = value ; attr1 = val1 ; [...]
value is empty so this needs an initial semi-colon. This is useful, e.g.,
for setting the rclaptg field for application selection inside
mimeview.
.TP
.BI "testmodifusemtime = "bool
Use mtime instead of
ctime to test if a file has been modified. The time is used
in addition to the size, which is always used.
Setting this can reduce re-indexing on systems where extended attributes
are used (by some other application), but not indexed, because changing
extended attributes only affects ctime.
Notes:
- This may prevent detection of change in some marginal file rename cases
(the target would need to have the same size and mtime).
- You should probably also set noxattrfields to 1 in this case, except if
you still prefer to perform xattr indexing, for example if the local
file update pattern makes it of value (as in general, there is a risk
for pure extended attributes updates without file modification to go
undetected). Perform a full index reset after changing this.

.TP
.BI "noxattrfields = "bool
Disable extended attributes
conversion to metadata fields. This probably needs to be
set if testmodifusemtime is set.
.TP
.BI "metadatacmds = "string
Define commands to
gather external metadata, e.g. tmsu tags. 
There can be several entries, separated by semi-colons, each defining
which field name the data goes into and the command to use. Don't forget the
initial semi-colon. All the field names must be different. You can use
aliases in the "field" file if necessary.
As a not too pretty hack conceded to convenience, any field name
beginning with "rclmulti" will be taken as an indication that the command
returns multiple field values inside a text blob formatted as a recoll
configuration file ("fieldname = fieldvalue" lines). The rclmultixx name
will be ignored, and field names and values will be parsed from the data.
Example: metadatacmds = ; tags = tmsu tags %f; rclmulti1 = cmdOutputsConf %f

.TP
.BI "cachedir = "dfn
Top directory for Recoll data. Recoll data
directories are normally located relative to the configuration directory
(e.g. ~/.recoll/xapiandb, ~/.recoll/mboxcache). If 'cachedir' is set, the
directories are stored under the specified value instead (e.g. if
cachedir is ~/.cache/recoll, the default dbdir would be
~/.cache/recoll/xapiandb).  This affects dbdir, webcachedir,
mboxcachedir, aspellDicDir, which can still be individually specified to
override cachedir.  Note that if you have multiple configurations, each
must have a different cachedir, there is no automatic computation of a
subpath under cachedir.
.TP
.BI "maxfsoccuppc = "int
Maximum file system occupation
over which we stop indexing. The value is a percentage,
corresponding to what the "Capacity" df output column shows. The default
value is 0, meaning no checking.
.TP
.BI "dbdir = "dfn
Xapian database directory
location. This will be created on first indexing. If the
value is not an absolute path, it will be interpreted as relative to
cachedir if set, or the configuration directory (-c argument or
$RECOLL_CONFDIR).  If nothing is specified, the default is then
~/.recoll/xapiandb/
.TP
.BI "idxstatusfile = "fn
Name of the scratch file where the indexer process updates its
status. Default: idxstatus.txt inside the configuration
directory.
.TP
.BI "mboxcachedir = "dfn
Directory location for storing mbox message offsets cache
files. This is normally 'mboxcache' under cachedir if set,
or else under the configuration directory, but it may be useful to share
a directory between different configurations.
.TP
.BI "mboxcacheminmbs = "int
Minimum mbox file size over which we cache the offsets. There is really no sense in caching offsets for small files. The
default is 5 MB.
.TP
.BI "webcachedir = "dfn
Directory where we store the archived web pages. This is only used by the web history indexing code
Default: cachedir/webcache if cachedir is set, else
$RECOLL_CONFDIR/webcache
.TP
.BI "webcachemaxmbs = "int
Maximum size in MB of the Web archive. This is only used by the web history indexing code.
Default: 40 MB.
Reducing the size will not physically truncate the file.
.TP
.BI "webqueuedir = "fn
The path to the Web indexing queue. This used to be
hard-coded in the old plugin as ~/.recollweb/ToIndex so there would be no
need or possibility to change it, but the WebExtensions plugin now downloads
the files to the user Downloads directory, and a script moves them to
webqueuedir. The script reads this value from the config so it has become
possible to change it.
.TP
.BI "webdownloadsdir = "fn
The path to browser downloads directory. This is
where the new browser add-on extension has to create the files. They are
then moved by a script to webqueuedir.
.TP
.BI "aspellDicDir = "dfn
Aspell dictionary storage directory location. The
aspell dictionary (aspdict.(lang).rws) is normally stored in the
directory specified by cachedir if set, or under the configuration
directory.
.TP
.BI "filtersdir = "dfn
Directory location for executable input handlers. If
RECOLL_FILTERSDIR is set in the environment, we use it instead. Defaults
to $prefix/share/recoll/filters. Can be redefined for
subdirectories.
.TP
.BI "iconsdir = "dfn
Directory location for icons. The only reason to
change this would be if you want to change the icons displayed in the
result list. Defaults to $prefix/share/recoll/images
.TP
.BI "idxflushmb = "int
Threshold (megabytes of new data) where we flush from memory to
disk index. Setting this allows some control over memory
usage by the indexer process. A value of 0 means no explicit flushing,
which lets Xapian perform its own thing, meaning flushing every
$XAPIAN_FLUSH_THRESHOLD documents created, modified or deleted: as memory
usage depends on average document size, not only document count, the
Xapian approach is is not very useful, and you should let Recoll manage
the flushes. The program compiled value is 0. The configured default
value (from this file) is now 50 MB, and should be ok in many cases.
You can set it as low as 10 to conserve memory, but if you are looking
for maximum speed, you may want to experiment with values between 20 and
200. In my experience, values beyond this are always counterproductive. If
you find otherwise, please drop me a note.
.TP
.BI "filtermaxseconds = "int
Maximum external filter execution time in
seconds. Default 1200 (20mn). Set to 0 for no limit. This
is mainly to avoid infinite loops in postscript files
(loop.ps)
.TP
.BI "filtermaxmbytes = "int
Maximum virtual memory space for filter processes
(setrlimit(RLIMIT_AS)), in megabytes. Note that this
includes any mapped libs (there is no reliable Linux way to limit the
data space only), so we need to be a bit generous here. Anything over
2000 will be ignored on 32 bits machines.
.TP
.BI "thrQSizes = "string
Stage input queues configuration. There are three
internal queues in the indexing pipeline stages (file data extraction,
terms generation, index update). This parameter defines the queue depths
for each stage (three integer values). If a value of -1 is given for a
given stage, no queue is used, and the thread will go on performing the
next stage. In practise, deep queues have not been shown to increase
performance. Default: a value of 0 for the first queue tells Recoll to
perform autoconfiguration based on the detected number of CPUs (no need
for the two other values in this case).  Use thrQSizes = -1 -1 -1 to
disable multithreading entirely.
.TP
.BI "thrTCounts = "string
Number of threads used for each indexing stage. The
three stages are: file data extraction, terms generation, index
update). The use of the counts is also controlled by some special values
in thrQSizes: if the first queue depth is 0, all counts are ignored
(autoconfigured); if a value of -1 is used for a queue depth, the
corresponding thread count is ignored. It makes no sense to use a value
other than 1 for the last stage because updating the Xapian index is
necessarily single-threaded (and protected by a mutex).
.TP
.BI "loglevel = "int
Log file verbosity 1-6. A value of 2 will print
only errors and warnings. 3 will print information like document updates,
4 is quite verbose and 6 very verbose.
.TP
.BI "logfilename = "fn
Log file destination. Use 'stderr' (default) to write to the
console. 
.TP
.BI "idxloglevel = "int
Override loglevel for the indexer. 
.TP
.BI "idxlogfilename = "fn
Override logfilename for the indexer. 
.TP
.BI "daemloglevel = "int
Override loglevel for the indexer in real time
mode. The default is to use the idx... values if set, else
the log... values.
.TP
.BI "daemlogfilename = "fn
Override logfilename for the indexer in real time
mode. The default is to use the idx... values if set, else
the log... values.
.TP
.BI "orgidxconfdir = "dfn
Original location of the configuration directory. This is used exclusively for movable datasets. Locating the
configuration directory inside the directory tree makes it possible to
provide automatic query time path translations once the data set has
moved (for example, because it has been mounted on another
location).
.TP
.BI "curidxconfdir = "dfn
Current location of the configuration directory. Complement orgidxconfdir for movable datasets. This should be used
if the configuration directory has been copied from the dataset to
another location, either because the dataset is readonly and an r/w copy
is desired, or for performance reasons. This records the original moved
location before copy, to allow path translation computations.  For
example if a dataset originally indexed as '/home/me/mydata/config' has
been mounted to '/media/me/mydata', and the GUI is running from a copied
configuration, orgidxconfdir would be '/home/me/mydata/config', and
curidxconfdir (as set in the copied configuration) would be
'/media/me/mydata/config'.
.TP
.BI "idxrundir = "dfn
Indexing process current directory. The input
handlers sometimes leave temporary files in the current directory, so it
makes sense to have recollindex chdir to some temporary directory. If the
value is empty, the current directory is not changed. If the
value is (literal) tmp, we use the temporary directory as set by the
environment (RECOLL_TMPDIR else TMPDIR else /tmp). If the value is an
absolute path to a directory, we go there.
.TP
.BI "checkneedretryindexscript = "fn
Script used to heuristically check if we need to retry indexing
files which previously failed.  The default script checks
the modified dates on /usr/bin and /usr/local/bin. A relative path will
be looked up in the filters dirs, then in the path. Use an absolute path
to do otherwise.
.TP
.BI "recollhelperpath = "string
Additional places to search for helper executables. This is only used on Windows for now.
.TP
.BI "idxabsmlen = "int
Length of abstracts we store while indexing. Recoll stores an abstract for each indexed file.
The text can come from an actual 'abstract' section in the
document or will just be the beginning of the document. It is stored in
the index so that it can be displayed inside the result lists without
decoding the original file. The idxabsmlen parameter
defines the size of the stored abstract. The default value is 250
bytes. The search interface gives you the choice to display this stored
text or a synthetic abstract built by extracting text around the search
terms. If you always prefer the synthetic abstract, you can reduce this
value and save a little space.
.TP
.BI "idxmetastoredlen = "int
Truncation length of stored metadata fields. This
does not affect indexing (the whole field is processed anyway), just the
amount of data stored in the index for the purpose of displaying fields
inside result lists or previews. The default value is 150 bytes which
may be too low if you have custom fields.
.TP
.BI "idxtexttruncatelen = "int
Truncation length for all document texts. Only index
the beginning of documents. This is not recommended except if you are
sure that the interesting keywords are at the top and have severe disk
space issues.
.TP
.BI "aspellLanguage = "string
Language definitions to use when creating the aspell
dictionary. The value must match a set of aspell language
definition files. You can type "aspell dicts"  to see a list The default
if this is not set is to use the NLS environment to guess the
value.
.TP
.BI "aspellAddCreateParam = "string
Additional option and parameter to aspell dictionary creation
command. Some aspell packages may need an additional option
(e.g. on Debian Jessie: --local-data-dir=/usr/lib/aspell). See Debian bug
772415.
.TP
.BI "aspellKeepStderr = "bool
Set this to have a look at aspell dictionary creation
errors. There are always many, so this is mostly for
debugging.
.TP
.BI "noaspell = "bool
Disable aspell use. The aspell dictionary generation
takes time, and some combinations of aspell version, language, and local
terms, result in aspell crashing, so it sometimes makes sense to just
disable the thing.
.TP
.BI "monauxinterval = "int
Auxiliary database update interval. The real time
indexer only updates the auxiliary databases (stemdb, aspell)
periodically, because it would be too costly to do it for every document
change. The default period is one hour.
.TP
.BI "monixinterval = "int
Minimum interval (seconds) between processings of the indexing
queue. The real time indexer does not process each event
when it comes in, but lets the queue accumulate, to diminish overhead and
to aggregate multiple events affecting the same file. Default 30
S.
.TP
.BI "mondelaypatterns = "string
Timing parameters for the real time indexing. Definitions for files which get a longer delay before reindexing
is allowed. This is for fast-changing files, that should only be
reindexed once in a while. A list of wildcardPattern:seconds pairs. The
patterns are matched with fnmatch(pattern, path, 0) You can quote entries
containing white space with double quotes (quote the whole entry, not the
pattern). The default is empty.
Example: mondelaypatterns = *.log:20 "*with spaces.*:30"
.TP
.BI "monioniceclass = "int
ionice class for the real time indexing process On platforms where this is supported. The default value is
3.
.TP
.BI "monioniceclassdata = "string
ionice class parameter for the real time indexing process. On platforms where this is supported. The default is
empty.
.TP
.BI "autodiacsens = "bool
auto-trigger diacritics sensitivity (raw index only). IF the index is not stripped, decide if we automatically trigger
diacritics sensitivity if the search term has accented characters (not in
unac_except_trans). Else you need to use the query language and the "D"
modifier to specify diacritics sensitivity. Default is no.
.TP
.BI "autocasesens = "bool
auto-trigger case sensitivity (raw index only). IF
the index is not stripped (see indexStripChars), decide if we
automatically trigger character case sensitivity if the search term has
upper-case characters in any but the first position. Else you need to use
the query language and the "C" modifier to specify character-case
sensitivity. Default is yes.
.TP
.BI "maxTermExpand = "int
Maximum query expansion count
for a single term (e.g.: when using wildcards). This only
affects queries, not indexing. We used to not limit this at all (except
for filenames where the limit was too low at 1000), but it is
unreasonable with a big index. Default 10000.
.TP
.BI "maxXapianClauses = "int
Maximum number of clauses
we add to a single Xapian query. This only affects queries,
not indexing. In some cases, the result of term expansion can be
multiplicative, and we want to avoid eating all the memory. Default
50000.
.TP
.BI "snippetMaxPosWalk = "int
Maximum number of positions we walk while populating a snippet for
the result list. The default of 1,000,000 may be
insufficient for very big documents, the consequence would be snippets
with possibly meaning-altering missing words.
.TP
.BI "pdfocr = "bool
Attempt OCR of PDF files with no text content if both tesseract and
pdftoppm are installed. The default is off because OCR is so
very slow.
.TP
.BI "pdfocrlang = "string
Language to assume for PDF OCR. This is very important for having a reasonable rate of errors
with tesseract. This can also be set through a configuration variable
or directory-local parameters. See the rclpdf.py script.
.TP
.BI "pdfattach = "bool
Enable PDF attachment extraction by executing pdftk (if
available). This is
normally disabled, because it does slow down PDF indexing a bit even if
not one attachment is ever found.
.TP
.BI "pdfextrameta = "string
Extract text from selected XMP metadata tags. This
is a space-separated list of qualified XMP tag names. Each element can also
include a translation to a Recoll field name, separated by a '|'
character. If the second element is absent, the tag name is used as the
Recoll field names. You will also need to add specifications to the
"fields" file to direct processing of the extracted data.
.TP
.BI "pdfextrametafix = "fn
Define name of XMP field editing script. This
defines the name of a script to be loaded for editing XMP field
values. The script should define a 'MetaFixer' class with a metafix()
method which will be called with the qualified tag name and value of each
selected field, for editing or erasing. A new instance is created for
each document, so that the object can keep state for, e.g. eliminating
duplicate values.
.TP
.BI "mhmboxquirks = "string
Enable thunderbird/mozilla-seamonkey mbox format quirks Set this for the directory where the email mbox files are
stored.


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
recollindex(1) recoll(1)
