.TH XADUMP 1 "18 November 2017"
.SH NAME
xadump \- low level access to a Recoll Xapian index.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xadump
[
.B \-d
<dbdir>
]
[
.B \-e
<outputencoding>
]
.B \-i
<docid>
.B \-D
.br
.B xadump
[
.B \-d
<dbdir>
]
[
.B \-e
<outputencoding>
]
.B \-i
<docid>
.B \-X
.br
.B xadump
[
.B \-d
<dbdir>
]
[
.B \-e
<outputencoding>
]
.B \-i
<docid>
[
.B \-x
]
.B \-T
.br
.B xadump
[
.B \-d
<dbdir>
]
[
.B \-e
<outputencoding>
]
.B \-i
<docid>
[
.B \-x
]
.B \-r

.br
.B xadump
[
.B \-d
<dbdir>
]
[
.B \-e
<outputencoding>
]
.B \-t
<term>
.B \-E
.br
.B xadump
[
.B \-d
<dbdir>
]
[
.B \-e
<outputencoding>
]
.B \-t
<term>
.B \-F
.br
.B xadump
[
.B \-d
<dbdir>
]
[
.B \-e
<outputencoding>
]
.B \-t
<term>
.B \-P

.br
.B xadump
.B \-T
[
.B \-f
]
[
.B \-n
]
[
.B \-l
]

.br
.B xadump
.B \-q
term [term ...]


.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B xadump
command is a low-level access and diagnostic tool for a Xapian index as
organized by the Recoll indexer. The index directory to be used is
specified with option
.B \-d.
.PP
Options -D, -X, -T and -r take a single
.B docid
argument specified with option
.B \-i.
.B \-D
displays the document data record.
.B \-X
deletes all index data for the document.
.B \-T
prints the term list for the document. Without a docid argument, this
option will list the whole index term list. 
.B \-f
can be set to precede each term with its occurrence count (only if no
docid is specified).
.B \-n
can be set to omit the enclosing brackets.
.B \-l
can be set to skip prefixed terms.
.B \-r
prints the document text as reconstructed from index data.

When option
.B \-x
is set, terms are printed with each character separated by a space, which
can be useful to check some encoding issues.
.PP
Options -E, -F and -P all need a term argument, specified with
.B \-t
<term>.
.B \-E
performs a term existence test.
.B \-F
retrieves the term frequency for the given term.
.B \-P
displays the postings for the given term.
.PP
With option
.B \-q,
xadump performs a simple AND query on the index, using the given term
arguments.

