.\" $Id: recoll.1,v 1.3 2007-11-13 18:42:18 dockes Exp $ (C) 2005 J.F.Dockes\$
.TH RECOLL 1 "8 January 2006"
.SH NAME
recoll \- user interface for the Recoll full text search system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B recoll
[
.B \-c
<configdir>
]
[
.B \-o
|
.B \-l
|
.B \-f
|
.B \-a
]
[
.B \-t
]
[
.B \-q
<query>
]

.B recoll
[
.B \-c
<configdir>
]
<url>
.SH DESCRIPTION
In the first form, the
.B recoll
command will start the graphical user interface for querying the 
.B Recoll 
database.
.PP
On the first run, 
.B recoll
will create the user configuration which can be customized
before starting the first indexation.
.PP
The 
.B \-c 
option specifies the configuration directory name, overriding the
default or $RECOLL_CONFDIR.
.PP
The 
.B \-q 
option can be used to specify an initial query on the command line. This
query will be interpreted by default as a query language string.
If
.B \-a 
is specified, the query string will be interpreted as an
.I all words
simple search query. If 
.B \-o 
is specified, the query string will be interpreted as an
.I any word
simple search query. If 
.B \-f
is specified, the query string will be interpreted as a
.I file name
simple search query. If 
.B \-l
is specified, the query string will be interpreted as a
.I query language
simple search query.
.PP
If 
.B \-t
is specified, or if
.B recoll
is called as
.B recollq
(through a link), the Graphical User Interface will not be started, and results
will be printed to the standard output. Additional options understood by
the 
.B recollq
command may be specified in this case. These can control the output format
and the maximum number of results to be printed.
.PP
Please refer to online help for a full description.
.PP
In the second form, the 
.B recoll
command can be used to start a native viewer for a document indexed by
Recoll. It will understand a final URL fragment (separated by a '#'
character) to indicate an 
.I ipath
, the specifier for the part of the Recoll document access path which is is
internal to a container such as a mbox folder or a zip archive, and will,
if needed, create a temporary file to let a normal system utility display
the document.
.PP
The second form is mostly used for opening embedded documents from the
Ubuntu Unity Recoll lens.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP 
recollindex(1) recollq(1) recoll.conf(5) 
